# Architecture Design Record: Use ADRs

## Context

We are all novice developers and would like to make it as easy as possible for us to collaborate on this project.
In order to achieve that goal: 
- We want to ensure that we consider any alternatives when making an architectrual decision (AD).
- We want to base our ADs on well-researched opinions that should be easily recalled at a later date.
- We don't want one person making an AD in a vacuum without input from the team.
- Despite being a in different geographic areas, we want our team members to have a strong shared understanding of the technical rationale behind decisions.
- We want to be able to revisit prior decisions to determine fairly if they still make sense, and if the motivating circumstances or conditions have changed.

## Decision

We will document every architecture-level decision for Arachne and its
core modules with an
[Architecture Decision Record](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions). These
are a well structured, relatively lightweight way to capture
architectural proposals. They can serve as an artifact for discussion,
and remain as an enduring record of the context and motivation of past
decisions.

The workflow will be:

1. A developer creates an ADR document outlining an approach for a particular question or problem. The ADR has an initial status of "proposed."
1. The developers and steering group discuss the ADR. During this period, the ADR should be updated to reflect additional context, concerns raised, and proposed changes.
1. Once consensus is reached, ADR can be transitioned to either an "accepted" or "rejected" state.
1. Only after an ADR is accepted should implementing code be committed to the master branch of the relevant project/module.
1. If a decision is revisited and a different conclusion is reached, a new ADR should be created documenting the context and rationale for the change. The new ADR should reference the old one, and once the new one is accepted, the old one should (in its "status" section) be updated to point to the new one. The old ADR should not be removed or otherwise modified except for the annotation pointing to the new ADR.

## Status

Proposed

## Consequences

1. Developers must write an ADR and submit it for review before selecting an approach to any architectural decision -- that is, any decision that affects the way the application is put together at a high level.
1. We will have a concrete artifact around which to focus discussion, before finalizing decisions.
1. If we follow the process, decisions will be made deliberately, as a group.
1. The master branch of our repositories will reflect the high-level consensus of the steering group.
1. We will have a useful persistent record of why the system is the way it is.


